Now that you have put your skills to the test and
created your first data pipeline outline and visualization,
we will explore the need for data pipelines.
To help explain why we need data pipelines,
we'll start with some evidence that data pipelines
have become a hot topic with a Google Trends graph.
As you can see there is an increasing buzz around data pipelines.
Before 2011, data pipeline was barely a thought.
Since that time interest in data pipeline has grown immensely.
Let us explore why.
There has been an increase in the number of data sources.
The concept of software as a service has change the way we think about enterprise data.
For team communications we are using Slack,
for marketing Salesforce, for payment Stripe,
and for accounting QuickBooks.
What this means is that we are feeding,
storing, and getting data from multiple apps.
Data is more distributed and siloed.
We need solutions that can work in such complexities and solve our data problems.
Data pipelines can help us centralize and normalize
this data to discover insights across silos.
Changes in the type of data sources.
With everything around us getting connected to the Internet,
Internet of things or IoT,
there is a constant stream of data.
How the data is collected and is used in real-time is changing.
Highly optimized and automated data pipelines are needed to make use of this data.
Another set of complications revolve around classic data problems or data needs.
How data is generated and consumed over time changes.
We need inbuilt flexibility to meet these changes with minimal support.
With time, amount of data collected grows,
for that we need scalable data pipelines.
Data might get corrupted and we want to focus
on solution that guarantee data correctness.
Data might get duplicated and we need mechanism do run data validation.
Data leaks can distort our datasets.
So we need to ensure data completeness.
Latency might throw us off,
thus removing bottlenecks is important.
Monitoring the progress of these processes is needed.
Automation and reproducibility are also important.
Data pipelines are built so that these problems can be addressed.
Our data pipeline might not be optimized across all these factors,
but rather it will be optimized for the parameters most important for our use case.
Now it's time to put your skills to test.
These quizzes and activities will help you ensure
that you identify data problems and potential solution.
Please complete the quizzes below.